It's Friday the 17th of May 2019 and I'm here with Jill Willey in her house in Raider.
Jill, as you know, on the 20th of July 1969 we had the first landing on the moon.
How old were you when that happened?
I would have been in my late teens.
I would have been 18.
Do you remember anything about it?
Oh certainly, yes. I remember all the excitement building up to it.
I think people were almost in a state of disbelief.
Is it going to happen? How can it possibly happen?
How can mankind possibly get all the way up there?
The little stick figures that we saw jumping around in the films, which of course we've seen forever more,
they were almost beyond belief really. They looked a little bit like cartoon characters.
Yes, as they said, one giant step for mankind, wasn't it?
Where were you when you were watching it?
Oh, where would I have been? I don't know if I saw the actual landing.
I'm not sure if that bit was televised. I suppose it must have been.
But of course we saw it for at least several weeks afterwards.
We're living in Lincolnshire.
Some people heard it on the radio.
Yes, I think most people had a TV in those days.
I know we'd certainly had a TV for well over 10 years by then.
One thing I remember thinking, people talk about Neil Armstrong,
Neil Armstrong, the first man on the moon.
That would have been wonderful, but the way I looked at it was,
we were all on the earth, they were all up there.
But Buzz Aldrin, who came second,
how wonderful to be the first man to be in close proximity
and to presumably watch Neil Armstrong actually set foot on the moon.
I think Buzz had the better deal actually. I really do.
We always talk about getting there first.
I'm not sure where Buzz was when he got onto the moon,
but at least he was the closest person to the first man on the moon.
I mean, how wonderful that would be.
Also what I do remember was people's attitudes towards it.
I mean, the Americans were all patting themselves on the back,
basically, because I think they'd won the space race.
I remember seeing an interview sometime before when Yuri Gagarin,
if you remember, was the first astronaut actually in outer space
and how disappointed these guys on the radio were
because Russia had got there first.
But of course they went that step further and made it to the moon.
I suppose the Cold War would have been at its peak then really,
so it was very much an enmity.
But I remember them being so pleased that they got there first.
And I think really the Western world was happier about that too,
because there was always that sort of slight,
oh dear Russia, you know, that slight,
not being very comfortable with Russia and what Russia was doing.
And then in hindsight, I remember how people's views changed.
I mean, mankind had stepped on the moon
and nothing could ever, ever be the same again.
I mean, the myths that we'd comfortably lift with,
ad infinitum really, about darker the moon and the spirits
and this lovely mystery about it,
and a little man called Akin Drum up there,
you know, banging his ladle.
All that was suddenly dispelled.
All that was suddenly shattered by the fact
that a human being had sort of gone through that barrier
and actually walked on the moon.
And I think people started questioning their beliefs,
their religious belief.
And I think that also coincided with
perhaps a drop-off in church attendances
and that sort of thing.
And people were just querying the sort of things
that they'd held precious to them for, you know,
for so long, really.
Yes, it was amazing.
Yes, certainly, yeah.
And of course they're still up there
doing all sorts of strange things, aren't they?
Well, good luck to them,
as long as we learn something from it.
Brilliant.
Thank you very much for that, Jill.
That's very, very good.
You're welcome.